
"Rather let him be called Neclaus,"** returned the Queen, "for that
will mean 'Necile's little one.'"

The nymphs clapped their hands in delight, and Neclaus became the
infant's name, although Necile loved best to call him Claus, and in
afterdays many of her sisters followed her example.

Necile gathered the softest moss in all the forest for Claus to lie
upon, and she made his bed in her own bower.  Of food the infant had no
lack.  The nymphs searched the forest for bell-udders, which grow upon
the goa-tree and when opened are found to be filled with sweet milk.
And the soft-eyed does willingly gave a share of their milk to support
the little stranger, while Shiegra, the lioness, often crept stealthily
into Necile's bower and purred softly as she lay beside the babe and
fed it.

So the little one flourished and grew big and sturdy day by day, while
Necile taught him to speak and to walk and to play.

His thoughts and words were sweet and gentle, for the nymphs knew no
evil and their hearts were pure and loving.  He became the pet of the
forest, for Ak's decree had forbidden beast or reptile to molest him,
and he walked fearlessly wherever his will guided him.

Presently the news reached the other immortals that the nymphs of
Burzee had adopted a human infant, and that the act had been sanctioned
by the great Ak.  Therefore many of them came to visit the little
stranger, looking upon him with much interest.  First the Ryls, who are
first cousins to the wood-nymphs, although so differently formed.  For
the Ryls are required to watch over the flowers and plants, as the
nymphs watch over the forest trees.  They search the wide world for the
food required by the roots of the flowering plants, while the brilliant
colors possessed by the full-blown flowers are due to the dyes placed
in the soil by the Ryls, which are drawn through the little veins in
the roots and the body of the plants, as they reach maturity.  The Ryls
are a busy people, for their flowers bloom and fade continually, but
they are merry and light-hearted and are very popular with the other
immortals.

Next came the Knooks, whose duty it is to watch over the beasts of the
world, both gentle and wild.  The Knooks have a hard time of it, since
many of the beasts are ungovernable and rebel against restraint.  But
they know how to manage them, after all, and you will find that certain
laws of the Knooks are obeyed by even the most ferocious animals.
Their anxieties make the Knooks look old and worn and crooked, and
their natures are a bit rough from associating with wild creatures
continually; yet they are most useful to humanity and to the world in
general, as their laws are the only laws the forest beasts recognize
except those of the Master Woodsman.

Then there were the Fairies, the guardians of mankind, who were much
interested in the adoption of Claus because their own laws forbade them
to become familiar with their human charges.  There are instances on
record where the Fairies have shown themselves to human beings, and
have even conversed with them; but they are supposed to guard the lives
of mankind unseen and unknown, and if they favor some people more than
others it is because these have won such distinction fairly, as the
Fairies are very just and impartial.  But the idea of adopting a child
of men had never occurred to them because it was in every way opposed
to their laws;  so their curiosity was intense to behold the little
stranger adopted by Necile and her sister nymphs.

Claus looked upon the immortals who thronged around him with fearless
eyes and smiling lips.  He rode laughingly upon the shoulders of the
merry Ryls; he mischievously pulled the gray beards of the low-browed
Knooks;  he rested his curly head confidently upon the dainty bosom of
the Fairy Queen herself.  And the Ryls loved the sound of his laughter;
the Knooks loved his courage; the Fairies loved his innocence.

The boy made friends of them all, and learned to know their laws
intimately.  No forest flower was trampled beneath his feet, lest the
friendly Ryls should be grieved.  He never interfered with the beasts
of the forest, lest his friends the Knooks should become angry.  The
Fairies he loved dearly, but, knowing nothing of mankind, he could not
understand that he was the only one of his race admitted to friendly
intercourse with them.

Indeed, Claus came to consider that he alone, of all the forest people,
had no like nor fellow.  To him the forest was the world.  He had no
idea that millions of toiling, striving human creatures existed.

And he was happy and content.


** Some people have spelled this name Nicklaus and others Nicolas,
   which is the reason that Santa Claus is still known in some lands
   as St. Nicolas.  But, of course, Neclaus is his right name, and
   Claus the nickname given him by his adopted mother, the fair nymph
   Necile.



5.  The Master Woodsman

Years pass swiftly in Burzee, for the nymphs have no need to regard
time in any way.  Even centuries make no change in the dainty
creatures; ever and ever they remain the same, immortal and unchanging.

Claus, however, being mortal, grew to manhood day by day.  Necile was
disturbed, presently, to find him too big to lie in her lap, and he had
a desire for other food than milk.  His stout legs carried him far into
Burzee's heart, where he gathered supplies of nuts and berries, as well
as several sweet and wholesome roots, which suited his stomach better
than the belludders.  He sought Necile's bower less frequently, till
finally it became his custom to return thither only to sleep.

The nymph, who had come to love him dearly, was puzzled to comprehend
the changed nature of her charge, and unconsciously altered her own
mode of life to conform to his whims.  She followed him readily through
the forest paths, as did many of her sister nymphs, explaining as they
walked all the mysteries of the gigantic wood and the habits and nature
of the living things which dwelt beneath its shade.

The language of the beasts became clear to little Claus; but he never
could understand their sulky and morose tempers.  Only the squirrels,
the mice and the rabbits seemed to possess cheerful and merry natures;
yet would the boy laugh when the panther growled, and stroke the bear's
glossy coat while the creature snarled and bared its teeth menacingly.
The growls and snarls were not for Claus, he well knew, so what did
they matter?

He could sing the songs of the bees, recite the poetry of the
wood-flowers and relate the history of every blinking owl in Burzee.
He helped the Ryls to feed their plants and the Knooks to keep order
among the animals.  The little immortals regarded him as a privileged
person, being especially protected by Queen Zurline and her nymphs and
favored by the great Ak himself.

One day the Master Woodsman came back to the forest of Burzee.  He had
visited, in turn, all his forests throughout the world, and they were
many and broad.

Not until he entered the glade where the Queen and her nymphs were
assembled to greet him did Ak remember the child he had permitted
Necile to adopt.  Then he found, sitting familiarly in the circle of
lovely immortals, a broad-shouldered, stalwart youth, who, when erect,
stood fully as high as the shoulder of the Master himself.

Ak paused, silent and frowning, to bend his piercing gaze upon Claus.
The clear eyes met his own steadfastly, and the Woodsman gave a sigh of
relief as he marked their placid depths and read the youth's brave and
innocent heart.  Nevertheless, as Ak sat beside the fair Queen, and the
golden chalice, filled with rare nectar, passed from lip to lip, the
Master Woodsman was strangely silent and reserved, and stroked his
beard many times with a thoughtful motion.

With morning he called Claus aside, in kindly fashion, saying:

"Bid good by, for a time, to Necile and her sisters; for you shall
accompany me on my journey through the world."

The venture pleased Claus, who knew well the honor of being companion
of the Master Woodsman of the world.  But Necile wept for the first
time in her life, and clung to the boy's neck as if she could not bear
to let him go.  The nymph who had mothered this sturdy youth was still
as dainty, as charming and beautiful as when she had dared to face Ak
with the babe clasped to her breast; nor was her love less great.  Ak
beheld the two clinging together, seemingly as brother and sister to
one another, and again he wore his thoughtful look.



6.  Claus Discovers Humanity

Taking Claus to a small clearing in the forest, the Master said: "Place
your hand upon my girdle and hold fast while we journey through the
air; for now shall we encircle the world and look upon many of the
haunts of those men from whom you are descended."

These words caused Claus to marvel, for until now he had thought
himself the only one of his kind upon the earth; yet in silence he
grasped firmly the girdle of the great Ak, his astonishment forbidding
speech.

Then the vast forest of Burzee seemed to fall away from their feet, and
the youth found himself passing swiftly through the air at a great
height.

Ere long there were spires beneath them, while buildings of many shapes
and colors met their downward view.  It was a city of men, and Ak,
pausing to descend, led Claus to its inclosure.  Said the Master:

"So long as you hold fast to my girdle you will remain unseen by all
mankind, though seeing clearly yourself.  To release your grasp will be
to separate yourself forever from me and your home in Burzee."

One of the first laws of the Forest is obedience, and Claus had no
thought of disobeying the Master's wish.  He clung fast to the girdle
and remained invisible.
