
Susan had other good friends, too. There was the newel post opposite the
front door at home. Susan had never thought anything about the newel
post until one day, playing lady come to see with a shawl on for a
long skirt, she had tripped and bumped her head against the post. Now,
this was fully six months ago, and when Susan was only a little girl, as
she would have been sure to explain, and so she did what other little
girls have done before. Feeling the newel post to blame for her fall,
she pounded it with both hands and kicked it with both feet. And
suddenly, in the midst of the pounding and kicking, Susan spied a big
dent in the side of the post. Had she done that? Oh! what a mean, a
cruel girl she was! She hurried upstairs for her new hair-ribbon, which
she tied round what she called the newel post’s neck, and sitting down
she tried to smooth out the dent and soothe the newel post’s hurt
feelings at the same time. Perhaps Grandmother could have explained that
dent as made by a trunk carelessly carried upstairs, but Susan always
believed that she had made it. She rarely passed the newel post without
giving it a pat, and, sitting on the stairs, she and Flip and the newel
post often had many a pleasant chat together.

And there was Snowball, the rubber cat, that had been Susan’s favorite
toy when she was a baby. Snowball may once have deserved her name. But
now she was a dingy gray that not even frequent scrubbings with soap and
water could freshen. She had lost her tail, she had lost her squeak, but
Susan was loyal to her old pet and still lavished tender care upon her.

Then, too, there was the shawl dolly. Most of the time the dolly was a
plain little black-and-white checked shawl spread over Grandmother’s
shoulders or neatly folded on the hatbox in Grandmother’s closet. But
whenever Susan was a little ailing, Grandmother folded the shawl into a
soft comfortable dolly, who cuddled nicely and who never failed to give
to Susan the comfort needed.

Just now Susan was playing school in the corner. She was the teacher,
and Flip and the hassock, who this afternoon was a fat little boy named
Benny, were the scholars.

Flippy, who made you? asked the teacher.

God, answered Flippy promptly.

Susan made her talk in a squeaky little voice.

Benny, how much is two and two? was the next question.

But Benny didn’t answer. Perhaps he couldn’t.

Benny, how much is two and two? repeated the teacher loudly.

Still no answer.

This was dreadful, and Susan felt that she must be severe. Shaking her
finger warningly at disobedient Benny, she went to Grandfather’s desk to
borrow his long black ruler, and, glancing out of the window, she saw a
big red wagon toiling slowly up the road.

It’s the circus! exclaimed Susan. Grandfather, wake up, the circus is
coming.

Grandfather woke himself up with a shake and peered out of the window,
over Susan’s head.

No, that is not the circus, said he. That’s a moving-van. Somebody’s
furniture is packed inside that wagon. Hello, they’re turning in at the
Tallman place. Liza must have rented it.

And Grandfather and Susan, with great interest, watched the heavy van
turn and jolt along the driveway that led to the house next door.

Here comes another van, called Susan, whose sharp eyes spied the red
wagon far down the road.

This van bore what the movers call a swinging load. On the back of the
wagon were tied all the pieces of furniture that couldn’t be crammed or
squeezed into the van itself.

The horses pulled and strained up the little hill until they were
directly opposite Susan’s gate, and then, with a crash, something fell
off the back of the wagon.

Look, look! cried Susan, hopping up and down. Look, Grandfather, it’s
a rocking-horse!

Sure enough, a dapple gray rocking-horse, with a gay red saddle, was
rocking away in the middle of the road as if he meant to reach Banbury
Cross before nightfall.

There will be somebody for me to play with! cried Susan, climbing up
on Grandfather’s desk in her excitement. Maybe I will have a ride on
that rocking-horse. Won’t there be somebody for me to play with,
Grandfather?

And Susan, her eyes shining, put both arms around Grandfather’s neck and
gave him a great hug.

It looks that way, said Grandfather, as soon as Susan let him breathe
again. It looks as if that rocking-horse was about your size, too. But
here comes your grandmother. Perhaps she has heard something about it in
the village.

Like a flash Susan was off down the road, and by the time Grandfather
had put on his hat and shut the office door Susan had learned all the
news that Grandmother had to tell.

Grandmother knows all about it, called Susan, flying up the road
again. Miss Liza Tallman has rented her house for a year. And,
Grandfather, there is a little boy as old as me and his name is Philip
Vane.