
When John Marsh, the steel man, died, there was considerable stir in the
inner circles of New York society. And no wonder. The wealthy
ironmaster's unexpected demise certainly created a most awkward
situation. It meant nothing less than the social rehabilitation of a
certain individual who, up to this time, had been openly snubbed, not to
say deliberately "cut" by everybody in town. In other words, Society was
compelled, figuratively speaking, to go through the humiliating and
distasteful performance of eating crow. Circumstances alter cases. While
the smart set was fully justified in making a brave show of virtuous
indignation when one of its members so far forgot himself as to get
kicked out of his club, it was only natural that the offending
gentleman's peccadilloes were to be regarded in a more indulgent light
when he suddenly fell heir to one of the biggest fortunes in the
country.

It was too bad about "Jimmy" Marsh. His reputation was unsavory and he
deserved all of it. Total lack of moral principle combined with an
indolent, shiftless disposition had given him a distorted outlook on
things. All his life he had been good for nothing, and at the age of
forty he found himself a nuisance to himself and everybody else. Yet he
was not without a natural cunning which sometimes passed for smartness,
but he often overreached himself and committed blunders of which a
clever man would never be guilty. To put it plainly, Jimmy was crooked.
Fond of a style of living which he was not able to afford and desperate
for funds with which to gratify his expensive tastes, he had foolishly
attempted to cheat at cards. His notions of honor and common decency had
always been nebulous, and when one night, in a friendly game, he
clumsily tried to deal himself an ace from the bottom of the deck, not
even the fact that he was the brother and sole heir of one of the
richest men in the United States could save him from ignominious
expulsion.

The affair made a great noise at the time, and the newspapers were full
of its scandalous details. But the public soon forgets, and as to the
newspapers--they found other victims. Besides, Jimmy's prospects were
too bright to permit of him being dropped from sight altogether. It was
not forgotten that one day he would step into his brother's shoes and
then Society, willy nilly, would have to do homage to his money.

This rich brother, by the way, was largely responsible for Jimmy's
undoing. They were both--he and John--the sons of poor English people
who immigrated to America five years after John's birth. The father was
a journeyman baker and started a small business in Pittsburg. Two
cousins of the same name, William and Henry, haberdashers by trade, had
likewise settled and prospered in New Jersey. Fifteen years later the
mother died in giving birth to another son. The elder boy, a taciturn,
hard-working lad with a taste for figures, had found employment in the
steel industry, then in its infancy, but growing with giant strides. As
he acquired experience, his position was improved until, before long, he
was known as one of the most expert steel workers in the iron region.
Suddenly, dire calamity befell the little family. One fateful morning,
while making his early rounds, the baker was run over and killed by a
railroad train. It was a staggering blow, but John rose manfully to the
emergency. Silent, serious, masterful, his brain teeming with ideas
that would revolutionize the entire steel trade, he stoically buried his
progenitor and despatched the orphaned Jimmy to school.

The years passed. The discoveries of vast ore fields in Michigan and
Wisconsin had made the United States the biggest producer of steel in
the world. The pace set was terrific, orders poured in from all corners
of the globe, plants were kept going night and day, a steady stream of
gold flowed into the coffers of the delighted steelmakers who soon
became millionaires over night. John Marsh had long since been a partner
in the company to which he had remained loyal since boyhood, and in the
orgy of profit sharing, he found himself with stock holdings
representing millions.

James naturally shared in the good fortune. The hard-working John
grudged nothing to the drone. He paid the boy's way through college and
gave him a liberal allowance. When he was old enough and had sufficient
schooling he'd put him in the steel business and make a man of him. But,
unfortunately, Jimmy was not made of the same stern stuff as his
brother. Expensive tastes and dubious acquaintances were about all that
he acquired at the University. He gambled and drank and got hopelessly
entangled in debt. John was not blind to his brother's faults, but, in
a measure, he excused them. To the elder brother, plodding, methodical,
sober, the hare-brained, irresponsible Jimmy was always "the kid." What
was the use of taking him seriously? One day he'd get tired of making an
ass of himself. So he paid his debts without complaint. One day Jimmy
boldly demanded an increase in his allowance. John, still unruffled,
shook his head. "No, kid," he said quietly, "you must manage with what I
give you. When I'm gone you'll get it all." This was the first time that
John had hinted at the disposition he had made of his fortune. Of
course, it was only natural that an old bachelor should leave
practically everything to his only brother, but this was the first
intimation he had given of his intentions. Rendered almost speechless
from emotion, Jimmy hurried to the money lenders and borrowed on
"futures" to the limit.

This was the real starting point of Jimmy's downward course. From now on
he was unfitted for any serious effort. If he ever had any ambition he
lost it now. He lived solely on "prospects." What was the use of
exerting himself, he argued, when any day he might come in for millions?
When he left Harvard--under a cloud, of course--John took him in the
steel works. But Pittsburg's strenuous, nerve racking, smoky life did
not appeal very strongly to a young man who thirsted for the more
voluptuous joys of Broadway. He left for New York saying he would shift
for himself, and John, secretly glad to be rid of him, gave him a
handsome cheque and his godspeed.

So well did Jimmy "shift" for himself that within a year he had
squandered $10,000 and was hopelessly involved in debt. Once more the
patient John straightened matters out, and when Jimmy said he thought he
could win out in Wall Street if only given the chance, he purchased for
him a seat on the Stock Exchange. Two years later, as a result of
certain stock jobbing operations, not entirely free from scandal, he was
temporarily suspended from the floor, and later forced to sell his seat
to satisfy clamoring creditors who threatened to put him in jail. But
thanks to the good John's liberal allowance, he was still able to put on
a respectable front and thus for years he merely drifted, at heart a
crook, but living the life of a gentleman of leisure, awaiting patiently
the day when he would come into "his own."

The coming inheritance had thus gradually grown to be an obsession.
Night and day it occupied his thoughts. He could think and talk of
nothing else. His associates mockingly called him "Inheritance Jim."
For twenty-five long years he waited for his brother to die, and when,
from time to time, John in his few and far-between letters casually
remarked that he was enjoying excellent health, he took the news almost
in the light of a personal injury.

The years went on. The other cousins, William and Henry had died, each
leaving a son. William's son, Peter Marsh, feeling within the spiritual
call, became a Presbyterian minister at Rahway, and taking to himself a
wife, succeeded in raising a numerous progeny on a very slender income.
Henry's son, Thomas Marsh, followed his father's trade as haberdasher
and barely managed to keep body and soul together. To these poor
relatives, also, the dollars of "uncle" John proved an irresistible
attraction. In order not to be forgotten, they wrote him affectionate
letters, none of which received as much as an acknowledgment. Towards
these impecunious cousins James Marsh assumed a patronizing, almost
friendly, attitude. On divers occasions when his financial affairs
became so critical that he had to negotiate a small loan without delay
he had found even their slender savings useful. In return for these
pecuniary services rendered he had not discouraged the hope which they
often expressed that "uncle" John would remember them in his will. To
serve his own ends he kept up the pleasant fiction that he was on the
best of terms with his brother and that he would gladly use his
influence in their interests.