Then our friend Gatherer came in. He said he didn’t care very much for
this sort of thing, but he knew how to do it and would show us. He
placed his fingers on the glass and addressed the Spook. We, as became
novices, had always shown a certain respect in our manner of questioning
the Unknown. Gatherer spoke as if he were addressing a defaulter, or a
company on parade, with a ring in his voice which indicated he would
stand no nonsense. And forthwith the glass began to talk sense. Its
answers were short—usually no more than a yes or a no—but they were
certainly understandable. Once more we were all intensely interested.
Gatherer did more than add fuel to the waning fire of our enthusiasm. He
presented us with his own spook-board, which he and another officer had
made some months before, and used in secret. It was a piece of sheet
iron on which the glass moved much more smoothly than on the tray or the
table, and he suggested pasting down the letters in such a way that they
could not be knocked off by the movement of the glass. Later on Matthews
still further improved it by adding a raised scantling round the edge
which prevented the glass from leaving the circle.

Gatherer was in great request, for without him we could get nothing, try
we never so hard. But he would not come—he disliked it—he had other
things to do, he might come tomorrow, and so on. Ah, Gatherer, you
have much to answer for! Had you never shown us that intelligible
replies could be obtained, I might have remained an honest little
enquirer, happy in the mere moving of the glass. But now, mere movement
was no longer satisfying. We were tired of our own company, and knew one
another as only fellow-prisoners can. We wanted a chat with somebody
outside, somebody with ideas culled beyond our prison walls, whose
mind was not an open book to us, whose thoughts were not limited to the
probable date of the end of the war or of the arrival of the next mail
from home. It did not matter who it was—Julius Cæsar or Socrates,
Christopher Columbus or Aspasia (it is true we rather hoped for Aspasia,
especially the Doc.), but any old Tom, or Dick, or Harry would have been
welcome. You ought to have known that, Gatherer, for you were a
prisoner, too; but you were callous, and left us alone to record our
meaningless X’s, and Y’s and Z’s.

After another week of failure we grew desperate. If we get nothing
to-night, said Matthews, we’ll chuck it.

We tried hard, and got nothing.

One more shot, Bones, said the Doc., sitting down opposite me.

I glanced at him, and from him to Price and Matthews. Disappointment was
written on every face. Success had seemed so near, and we had laboured
so hard. Was this to end as so many of our efforts at amusement had
ended, in utter boredom?

The doctor began pulling up the sleeves of his coat as though he were
leading a forlorn hope.

Right you are, Doc. I put my fingers on the glass. One more shot,
and as I said it the Devil of Mischief that is in every Celt whispered
to me that the little man must not go empty away. We closed our eyes.

For the last time, said the Doc. WHO—ARE—YOU?

The glass began to move across the board.

S-, Matthews read aloud, A-L-L-Y—SALLY!

Sally, Price repeated, in a whisper.

Sally, I echoed again.

The Doc. wriggled forward in his chair, tugging up his coat-sleeves.
Keep at it, he whispered excitedly. Keep at it, we’ve got one at
last. And then in a loud voice that had a slight quaver in it—

GOOD EVENING, SALLY! HAVE YE ANYTHIN’ TO TELL US?

Sally had quite a lot to tell us. She made love to Alec Matthews (much
to his delight) in the most barefaced way, and then coolly informed him
that she preferred sailor-boys. Price beamed, and replied in fitting
terms. She talked seriously to the Doc. (who had murmured—out of
jealousy, I expect—that Sally seemed a brazen hussy), and warned us to
be careful what we said in the presence of a lady. (That presence of a
lady startled us—most of us hadn’t seen a lady for nearly three years.)
She accused me of being unbecomingly dressed. (Pyjamas and a
blanket—quite respectable for a prisoner.) Then she complained of
feeling tired, made one or two most unladylike remarks when we pressed
her to tell us more, and went away.

I had fully intended to tell them that I had steered the glass, with my
eyes shut, from my memory of the position of the letters. But the talk
became too good to interrupt. There were theories as to who Sally could
be. Was she dead, or alive, or non-existent? Was the glass guided by a
spook or by subconscious efforts? Then round again on to the old
argument of why the glass moved at all. Was it the unconscious exercise
of muscular force by one or both of the mediums or was it some external
power? I lay back and listened to the sapper and the submarine man and
the scientist from Central Africa. Others dropped in and added their
voices and extracts from their experience to the discussion. Dorling had
schoolboy reminiscences of a thought-reading entertainment, which was
somehow allied to the subject in hand. Winnie Smith knew someone—I think
it was one of his second cousins in Russia, or a crowned head, or
somebody of the kind—who had a pet spook in the house. I told my story
of the dak bungalow in Myinmu Township in Burma, where there is a black
ghost-dog, who does not mind revolver bullets. We talked, and we talked,
and we talked, forgetting the war and the sentries outside and all the
monotony of imprisonment. And always the talk rounded back to Sally and
the spook-glass that moved no one knew how. The others slipped away to
bed, and we were left alone. Alec, Price, the Doc., and myself. I braced
myself to confess the fraud, but Doc. raised his tin mug:

Here’s to Sally and success, and many more happy evenings, said he.

_Facilis descensus Averni!_ I lifted my mug with the rest, and drank in
silence. Little I guessed how much water was to flow under the bridges
before I could make my confession, or under what strange conditions that
confession was to be made.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Next day I woke—a worm. I felt as if I had caught myself taking sweeties
from a child. They had all accepted the wonder of the previous night so
uncritically. It was a shame. It was unforgivable! I would get out of
bed. I would go across and tell them at once.

Don’t, said the Devil of Mischief. Stay where you are. It was only a
rag. If you really want to tell them, any old time will do. Besides,
it’s beastly cold this morning, and you’ve got a headache. Stay in bed!

But it wasn’t a rag. We were experimenting in earnest, said I. That’s
why it was so mean. I got one foot out of bed.

Stay where you are, I tell you, said the Devil. You gave them a jolly
good evening, and you can have plenty more.

I pulled my foot back under the blankets again. Yes, we had had a jolly
evening—the Doc. himself had said so. I would think it over a little
longer.

I thought it over—and started up again.

You ass! said the Devil. They’ll only laugh at you! The whole thing’s
a fraud, anyway. Let them find out for themselves. Oliver Lodge, Conan
Doyle, and the rest of the precious crew are victims in the same way.

I won’t, said I. I’m going to tell them. I got up and dressed
slowly.

See here, said the Devil. What you gave them last night was something
new to talk about. Carry on! It does them good. It sets them thinking.
Carry on!

And what sort of a swine will I look when they find me out? said I.

But they won’t, said the Devil.

But they will—they must, said I, and opened the door.

On the landing outside was our Wardie, once of America, doing Müller’s
exercises to get the stiffness out of his wounded shoulder. That was a
Holy Rite, which nothing was allowed to interrupt. But to-day he stopped
and faced me. I think my Devil must have entered into him.

Hello, Bones, you sly dog! said he.[2]

What’s up, Wardie?

Oh, you don’t get _me_ with your larks, he said, grinning at me. I
know you, you old leg-puller!

I made to pass on.

You and your Sally, he chuckled.

Oh, _that_! I said, and tried again to pass.

Come on, Bones, he continued; how d’you do it?

Why, that’s spooking, Wardie, said I.

Oh, get on with you! You don’t catch me! I’m too old a bird, Sonny.
How’s it done?

You’ve seen! You sit with your fingers on a glass, and the glass moves
about.

Yes, yes, it moves all right. But this Sally business? These answers?

That’s what everybody’s trying to find out, Wardie.

I’ll find out one of these fine days, Bones me boy! He dug his thumb
into my ribs and laughed at me.

Right-o, Wardie, said I, and went back into my room. My dander was up.

